Hey guys will come back to the chorus.
All right so the last couple of lectures we went over long form content and controversial postings.
Now of course if you combine those two to create a long form and controversial post well well-done you're
awesome.
Now this time and in this lecture we're going to discuss another kind of content that's pretty easy
to do right out of the gate.
And I call it hyper topical content.
Now what exactly do I mean by that fuzzy sounding word.
You might ask.
Yes I know.
Hyper topical content kind of sounds like an ointment you might put on a rash and well the thought that
you're probably right and you should probably get that rash checked out for topical content is content
about something that is relevant in the world right now.
Like literally right this second I'm talking about content that discusses our reference's current events.
Relevance is a really big factor when people decide whether or not to read something.
Well what's more relevant than what's going on right this second now topical content usually covers
one of two things.
And these are the two kind of ways I like to think about it.
Number one usually covers your industry.
Now every industry has current events and topics people are going to be talking about on a day to day
basis.
This is true.
It might include things like new product rollouts or updates it could be things like new tools new books
new events that are just happening now.
What's nice is that if you write about a current event or topic in your industry not only is it relevant
to your audience but it also qualifies as topical.
It's fresh and it's new.
Now the other way of looking at topical content is that it can also just be about the world you could
react to literally any current event like pop culture happenings.
You know the big season finale of that show that everyone watches or the big sports events like the
Super Bowl or even something that captures people's attention that you see post about pretty much all
over the place online whatever it may be.
Now you may or may not have heard this before but writing hyper topical content can also be referred
to as what we call news checking.
Why exactly would you call it news jacking.
Well because it's sort of like hijacking the attention that current news is getting and then using it
for your own purposes.
I don't really know.
I mean I personally feel like it's more like piggybacking you know writing the wave of something's popularity
by weighing in on it or drawing some connection people might not have seen.
But then again I'm not in the circle of people that make these terms.
Ultimately the idea is to make that connection between a current topic and your company product industry
or customers.
That's really the name of the game runner when they're pogoing go came out in the summer of 2016.
Oh so long ago and we were all young it arrive at the beginning of it it was like July and by the end
of that month pretty much everybody was talking about it.
Even people who had until idea would have put them on was the media and the blogs were writing all kinds
of articles about its success.
And it didn't really take long for other non-related blogs didn't start writing topical articles as
well.
For instance Discovery Education has nothing to do with poker Mongo but they wrote a post called Poker
go in the classroom and they discussed ways teachers could talk about the game and elements of it like
mapping digital storytelling and data literacy.
Yeah I now it's pretty much a stretch but it worked.
I also saw another one.
Forbes One called digital marketing lessons of Pokemon go and how companies might consider using augmented
reality to drive traffic to their stores.
Leave it to Forbes to pretty much always jump on any type of trend.
Both of those posts I just mentioned well they kind of rode that Pokemon go wave and they were able
to capture the attention that Pokemon go had at the moment and then connect that to their audience and
the interest that their own audience has.
What's nice about hyper topical post is that because they're topical there's actually some pretty unique
benefits that they can bring dear's site or your blog.
So let's just go over three examples of how this can actually work for you.
Number one topical content when you have it on your site it makes you look current producing topical
content makes it look like you're paying attention to the world and you're hip and not old.
It's also a pretty good chance to show off a little bit of personality.
Plenty of space in there to put in your Yagya.
Number two is a Google search algorithm.
You know when you search something on Google how does it decide what shows up on the page.
Well one of the new factors is that they will look for content that looks more Frasch and then they'll
reward that with more search juice.
There are obviously a lot of factors that go into how Google evaluates how valuable page is but one
of the new factors is freshness.
And so that's something you should really take into consideration.
Yes.
Freshness sounds like we're talking about bread and eggs or something but really in this case freshness
is determined by the age of the page that it's indexing the search volume of the topic you're writing
about and the amount of traffic engagement that your content is getting the better those metrics are
the newer the fresher Google considers it the more Google is going to like it.
Now the third example of a benefit I can think of is that the post can be sieved as just frankly being
more relevant than older posts now the general assumption is that the latest info has to be the most
up to date and the most accurate right.
Well it's an easy assumption to make and a lot of people do.
So therefore if you like to mix in topical content people will look at that and they'll say hey looks
like they have a lot of new stuff new must mean up to date.
It must mean cutting edge sort of Sara Lee.
True but that's what they think.
That's how our brains work.
Now on the flip side if you're trying to go this route and you try to write really really happening
right now post there are obviously some disadvantages that you should be aware of.
Number one it's almost immediately dated after you post it.
Whatever reference you make it's possible that I could lose its relevance and it's Fowlie so it could
seem passe or confusing if someone was reading this after you know the time it peaked.
Do you write for instance like the hundred reasons why app development is just like the Rio Olympics.
Well you know that's cool and all but the Rio Olympics happened in the summer of 2016.
According to Google Trends people search for that topic for approximately one month and haven't really
cared since probably could have guessed that.
I personally never cared because the only Olympics to me is the Olympics with people ski laid down.
Then they shoot things and then they get up and ski again over time.
Topical references can lose their power because there is a lot less conversation and people forget about
all those details about all those events during that time and people are discussing it.
Sure it's great topical content just be prepared for the traffic to drop off once people are done with
said topic.
The second disadvantage I see is that you need to act fast.
You get an idea really quickly for a topical person need to put it together pretty quickly and pretty
immediately.
That generally means that you need to kind of have your process down.
So here's an example.
A lot of major videogame releases for I don't know the PlayStation or the Xbox suffer server overload
problems right when they launch because everybody likes to jump on their platform because they want
to play the newest game.
So people complain for a day or two while it's happening and then things kind of just settle off.
Well you're pairing a blog post about the server outages and you somehow connect this to your plumbing
business or whatever you're doing and it takes you a week to write it edited and then finally publish
it.
Well your news probably won't be relevant by the time it goes online.
So if you're going to write a topical post well you need to be nimble and you need to be able to jump
on something really at a moment's notice that there are disadvantage.
I think it's kind of worth considering is that if you're going to focus on topical content strategies
it really does require close attention to current events.
You really have to pay more attention to your industry and the world around you whether or not that's
something you want to do if you're the type of person that likes to ignore the world.
Well this might be kind of difficult.
The news and the current events and the industry kind of happenings is where we're going to get your
material if you're waiting for someone to come and say to you you should write about this or that.
Well it's probably going to be too late.
So you really have to constantly monitor your space.
So should these disadvantages scare you off from trying some topical posts out yourself.
Well probably not topical content doesn't need to be a big part of your content strategy to me really
this kind of content represents an opportunity more than an obligation you can pay attention to what's
going on around you and listen to what people are talking about.
Every so often you'll realize there's a blog post idea or some other kind of piece the readers would
appreciate if you make every single post hyper topical at some point.
You're not really a blog you're a news station.
Nothing wrong with that necessarily again.
But I don't consider it a tenable strategy.
Now this all sounds well and good that you might be wondering what's the best way to pay attention and
be aware of what's happening in my industry or in my world.
So when I have the opportunity to write something like this I can actually pull it off.
Well here are some tips that have worked for me in the past and I'm going to cover for that I can think
of off the top my head we're one set up some e-mail subscriptions.
You can usually subscribe to different media blogs.
You can get industry news and updates via your e-mail.
Just go to these places usually you enter in your e-mail address.
They make it really easy to find this and then you can actually look at the e-mails when they come in.
Don't obviously just delete them or send them to spam.
You guys are in Gmail will send it direct to your promotions folder.
So then you can go there and just scan them.
The reason why we do email is because it comes all the one space when you divide space in your inbox
opposed to you know you have to monitor five Web sites you have to remember every single one every single
day.
That's just not realistic.
When you go through them look for articles they've written that might be something you yourself can
write about.
That is to say that other outlets right hyper topical content so really you just need to find the ones
that write the way you like or have interesting angles or interesting scoops and then subscribe to them
then all you do is just make your angle.
They tell you what's hot.
You don't even have to go out there to find these things.
Just show up in your inbox you can just scan through it when you find something you like oh there you
go.
Just write it quickly.
Also suggest that you set up Google alerts.
Check it out Google Google alerts or go to Google dot com slash alerts we cover this way back in like
the getting your hundred I think.
But it's really easy.
You just go to Google or com alerts and then you enter the term you want to get updates on it and every
time you search index updates something Google will send you an e-mail and say hey something new happened
recently with regards to this specific key word.
So that's a great way to focus on a specific something that you know hey I know I can connect this to
my audience.
I just need to know when something happens.
Now outside of jumping on a bunch of people's e-mail list another thing you can do is instead go out
and find these industry blogs and these media sites that you like instead of just doing that e-mail
thing.
We were just talking about.
Go and follow their social media pages.
Just go to their Facebook or Twitter or just follow the updates there.
Now I know there's no real way that you can only follow these people well in Twitter actually you can
make a list and then put them in that list and then all you have to do is consciously go and sort by
the list.
But one thing you can do is to use something like an aggregator like Feedly.
I don't know if you've ever used Feedly it's Feedly dot com but the way that it works is you just tell
Feedly which sites and blogs you want to see the latest updates from.
And then it just grabs all that information including the social media purse and it presents them to
you in one unified list that way instead of visiting ten different blogs each morning for example you
can just go to one spot instead.
Pretty cool tool.
It's FREE.
Another good tip I can think of is to go and check out the community discussions on sites like Reddit
and linked in irrelevant sublets that we established before way back when.
Check out the latest post and then just look for ones that are heavy on activity and are possibly talking
about something that is tied to an event then over on linked in really all you want to do is just go
and search on the search box of the top for groups that relate to your industry.
Then you just see what they're posting and talking about.
They'll probably post about things that are topical right now.
Obviously you can see the top what's been posted most recently see if it's relevant to what's happening
right now.
Then the last thing I would say is you can always just go and check out Google Trends.
We've covered this one probably 100 times now so you probably don't want to hear it again but it's Google
dot com slash trends.
You go there and you search for your keywords it will show you some of the trends and show you what's
happening right now what people are searching for in mass.
And that way you can see oh people are searching for this very specific thing.
I never thought of this it's just a question of can I write a post about this and can I connect it to
my audience.
All right guys let's take a break and we'll discuss more about the best ways of writing your hyper topical
content and the next lecture.
All right see the.